We must reject the idea that every time a law's broken, society is guilty rather than the lawbreaker. It is time to restore the American precept that each individual is accountable for his actions.
Do what you can, with what you have, where you are.
Let us not seek the Republican answer or the Democratic answer, but the right answer. Let us not seek to fix the blame for the past. Let us accept our own responsibility for the future.
Change will not come if we wait for some other person or some other time. We are the ones we've been waiting for. We are the change that we seek.
Motivation is the art of getting people to do what you want them to do because they want to do it.
Folks, I can tell you I've known eight presidents, three of them intimately.
The friend in my adversity I shall always cherish most. I can better trust those who helped to relieve the gloom of my dark hours than those who are so ready to enjoy with me the sunshine of my prosperity.
The finest steel has to go through the hottest fire.
Yesterday is not ours to recover, but tomorrow is ours to win or lose.
Like music and art, love of nature is a common language that can transcend political or social boundaries.
Older men declare war. But it is the youth that must fight and die.
A government big enough to give you everything you want is a government big enough to take from you everything you have.
You are not here merely to make a living. You are here in order to enable the world to live more amply, with greater vision, with a finer spirit of hope and achievement. You are here to enrich the world, and you impoverish yourself if you forget the errand.
If you live long enough, you'll make mistakes. But if you learn from them, you'll be a better person. It's how you handle adversity, not how it affects you. The main thing is never quit, never quit, never quit.
Don't write so that you can be understood, write so that you can't be misunderstood.
Peace, plenty, and contentment reign throughout our borders, and our beloved country presents a sublime moral spectacle to the world.
There is a power in public opinion in this country - and I thank God for it: for it is the most honest and best of all powers - which will not tolerate an incompetent or unworthy man to hold in his weak or wicked hands the lives and fortunes of his fellow-citizens.
Honest conviction is my courage; the Constitution is my guide.
There is nothing more corrupting, nothing more destructive of the noblest and finest feelings of our nature, than the exercise of unlimited power.
The bold enterprises are the successful ones. Take counsel of hopes rather than of fears to win in this business.
I pity the man who wants a coat so cheap that the man or woman who produces the cloth will starve in the process.
The test of leadership is not to put greatness into humanity, but to elicit it, for the greatness is already there.
Freedom is never more than one generation away from extinction. We didn't pass it to our children in the bloodstream. It must be fought for, protected, and handed on for them to do the same.
Keep your eyes on the stars, and your feet on the ground.
We have always held to the hope, the belief, the conviction that there is a better life, a better world, beyond the horizon.
We hold these truths to be self-evident: that all men are created equal; that they are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness.
In preparing for battle I have always found that plans are useless, but planning is indispensable.
If you can't convince them, confuse them.
Knowledge comes, but wisdom lingers. It may not be difficult to store up in the mind a vast quantity of facts within a comparatively short time, but the ability to form judgments requires the severe discipline of hard work and the tempering heat of experience and maturity.
Facts are stubborn things; and whatever may be our wishes, our inclinations, or the dictates of our passions, they cannot alter the state of facts and evidence.
Peace is a journey of a thousand miles and it must be taken one step at a time.
You can fool all the people some of the time, and some of the people all the time, but you cannot fool all the people all the time.
When you reach the end of your rope, tie a knot in it and hang on.
The tree of liberty must be refreshed from time to time with the blood of patriots and tyrants.
It is far better to be alone, than to be in bad company.
It is amazing what you can accomplish if you do not care who gets the credit.
Nothing in this world can take the place of persistence. Talent will not: nothing is more common than unsuccessful men with talent. Genius will not; unrewarded genius is almost a proverb. Education will not: the world is full of educated derelicts. Persistence and determination alone are omnipotent.
Our Constitution was made only for a moral and religious people. It is wholly inadequate to the government of any other.
Knowledge will forever govern ignorance; and a people who mean to be their own governors must arm themselves with the power which knowledge gives.
We will not waver; we will not tire; we will not falter, and we will not fail. Peace and Freedom will prevail.
I weep for the liberty of my country when I see at this early day of its successful experiment that corruption has been imputed to many members of the House of Representatives, and the rights of the people have been bartered for promises of office.
The truth will set you free, but first it will make you miserable.
I do not like broccoli. And I haven't liked it since I was a little kid and my mother made me eat it. And I'm President of the United States and I'm not going to eat any more broccoli.
Always vote for principle, though you may vote alone, and you may cherish the sweetest reflection that your vote is never lost.
Honor lies in honest toil.
Never judge a stranger by his clothes.
The right of self defense never ceases. It is among the most sacred, and alike necessary to nations and to individuals, and whether the attack be made by Spain herself or by those who abuse her power, its obligation is not the less strong.
Wealth can only be accumulated by the earnings of industry and the savings of frugality.
In the time of darkest defeat, victory may be nearest.
America's present need is not heroics but healing; not nostrums but normalcy; not revolution but restoration.
May God save the country, for it is evident that the people will not.
Frequently the more trifling the subject, the more animated and protracted the discussion.
I may be president of the United States, but my private life is nobody's damned business.
Give me six hours to chop down a tree and I will spend the first four sharpening the axe.
Those who make peaceful revolution impossible will make violent revolution inevitable.
If you're walking down the right path and you're willing to keep walking, eventually you'll make progress.
Truth will ultimately prevail where there is pains to bring it to light.
Failure at some point in your life is inevitable, but giving up is unforgivable.
In every battle there comes a time when both sides consider themselves beaten, then he who continues the attack wins.
Only if you have been in the deepest valley, can you ever know how magnificent it is to be on the highest mountain.
If Tyranny and Oppression come to this land, it will be in the guise of fighting a foreign enemy.
Freedom itself was attacked this morning by a faceless coward, and freedom will be defended.
Freedom is the open window through which pours the sunlight of the human spirit and human dignity.
Tell the truth, work hard, and come to dinner on time.
I have opinions of my own, strong opinions, but I don't always agree with them.
There is nothing wrong with America that cannot be cured with what is right in America.
Presidents come and go, but the Supreme Court goes on forever.
The world has nothing to fear from military ambition in our Government.
The people under our system, like the king in a monarchy, never dies.
The goal to strive for is a poor government but a rich people.
All the measures of the Government are directed to the purpose of making the rich richer and the poor poorer.
He serves his party best who serves his country best.
It is not strange... to mistake change for progress.
If you are as happy in entering the White House as I shall feel on returning to Wheatland, you are a happy man indeed.
The most terrifying words in the English language are: I'm from the government and I'm here to help.
Nobody cares how much you know, until they know how much you care.
Change is the law of life. And those who look only to the past or present are certain to miss the future.
The future rewards those who press on. I don't have time to feel sorry for myself. I don't have time to complain. I'm going to press on.
Leadership is the art of getting someone else to do something you want done because he wants to do it.
America was not built on fear. America was built on courage, on imagination and an unbeatable determination to do the job at hand.
No person was ever honored for what he received. Honor has been the reward for what he gave.
A man is not finished when he is defeated. He is finished when he quits.
If men were angels, no government would be necessary.
Leadership to me means duty, honor, country. It means character, and it means listening from time to time.
The Bible is the rock on which this Republic rests.
Man cannot live by bread alone; he must have peanut butter.
We are a nation of communities... a brilliant diversity spread like stars, like a thousand points of light in a broad and peaceful sky.
All men profess honesty as long as they can. To believe all men honest would be folly. To believe none so is something worse.
Communism is a hateful thing, and a menace to peace and organized government.
The idea that I should become president seems to me too visionary to require a serious answer. It has never entered my head, nor is it likely to enter the head of any other person.
Those who have wrought great changes in the world never succeeded by gaining over chiefs; but always by exciting the multitude. The first is the resource of intrigue and produces only secondary results, the second is the resort of genius and transforms the universe.
We become not a melting pot but a beautiful mosaic. Different people, different beliefs, different yearnings, different hopes, different dreams.
There is no pleasure in having nothing to do; the fun is having lots to do and not doing it.
He who controls the money supply of a nation controls the nation.
The man who is swimming against the stream knows the strength of it.
Patience and perseverance have a magical effect before which difficulties disappear and obstacles vanish.
Though the people support the government, the government should not support the people.
I have always done my duty. I am ready to die. My only regret is for the friends I leave behind me.
A little flattery will support a man through great fatigue.
This Constitution was not made for a day, nor is it composed of such flexible materials as to be warped to the purposes of a casually ascendant influence.
We need Hawaii just as much and a good deal more than we did California. It is Manifest Destiny.
I don't know what to do or where to turn in this taxation matter. Somewhere there must be a book that tells all about it, where I could go to straighten it out in my mind. But I don't know where the book is, and maybe I couldn't read it if I found it.
Great lives never go out; they go on.
With the Union my best and dearest earthly hopes are entwined.
Men may die, but the fabrics of free institutions remains unshaken.
Government of the people, by the people, for the people, shall not perish from the Earth.
In politics, nothing happens by accident. If it happens, you can bet it was planned that way.
I tremble for my country when I reflect that God is just; that his justice cannot sleep forever.
If the freedom of speech is taken away then dumb and silent we may be led, like sheep to the slaughter.
If you need more than 10 rounds to hunt, and some argue they hunt with that many rounds, you shouldn't be hunting. If you can't get the deer in 3 shots, you shouldn't be hunting. You are an embarrassment.
The art of war is simple enough. Find out where your enemy is. Get at him as soon as you can. Strike him as hard as you can, and keep moving on.
Old minds are like old horses; you must exercise them if you wish to keep them in working order.
If one morning I walked on top of the water across the Potomac River, the headline that afternoon would read: 'President Can't Swim.'
You can do what you have to do, and sometimes you can do it even better than you think you can.
Blessed are the young for they shall inherit the national debt.
If Lincoln were alive today, he'd be turning over in his grave.
There is no higher religion than human service. To work for the common good is the greatest creed.
It turns out that advancing equal opportunity and economic empowerment is both morally right and good economics, because discrimination, poverty and ignorance restrict growth, while investments in education, infrastructure and scientific and technological research increase it, creating more good jobs and new wealth for all of us.
The day is not far distant when three Stars and Stripes at three equidistant points will mark our territory: one at the North Pole, another at the Panama Canal, and the third at the South Pole. The whole hemisphere will be ours in fact as, by virtue of our superiority of race, it already is ours morally.
There is more selfishness and less principle among members of Congress than I had any conception of, before I became President of the U.S.
It is only when the people become ignorant and corrupt, when they degenerate into a populace, that they are incapable of exercising their sovereignty.
Liberty and equality are captivating sounds, but they often captivate to destroy.
To Englishmen, life is a topic, not an activity.
Wars will remain while human nature remains. I believe in my soul in cooperation, in arbitration; but the soldier's occupation we cannot say is gone until human nature is gone.
We Americans have no commission from God to police the world.
What is right and what is practicable are two different things.
The trouble with our Liberal friends is not that they're ignorant; it's just that they know so much that isn't so.
In any moment of decision, the best thing you can do is the right thing, the next best thing is the wrong thing, and the worst thing you can do is nothing.
My fellow Americans, ask not what your country can do for you, ask what you can do for your country.
There is not a liberal America and a conservative America - there is the United States of America. There is not a black America and a white America and latino America and asian America - there's the United States of America.
Plans are nothing; planning is everything.
You want a friend in Washington? Get a dog.
My failures have been errors in judgment, not of intent.
I can take it. The tougher it gets, the cooler I get.
I believe there are more instances of the abridgement of freedom of the people by gradual and silent encroachments by those in power than by violent and sudden usurpations.
To those of you who received honours, awards and distinctions, I say well done. And to the C students, I say you, too, can be president of the United States.
Fishing is much more than fish. It is the great occasion when we may return to the fine simplicity of our forefathers.
The political lesson of Watergate is this: Never again must America allow an arrogant, elite guard of political adolescents to by-pass the regular party organization and dictate the terms of a national election.
We know what works. Freedom Works. We know what's right. Freedom is right.
The highest glory of the American Revolution was this: it connected in one indissoluble bond the principles of civil government with the principles of Christianity.
A truly American sentiment recognizes the dignity of labor and the fact that honor lies in honest toil.
It is of great importance to our country generally, and especially to our navigating and whaling interests, that the Pacific Coast and, indeed, the whole of our territory west of the Rocky Mountains, should speedily be filled up by a hardy and patriotic population.
A king without power is an absurdity.
Let it be henceforth proclaimed to the world that man's conscience was created free; that he is no longer accountable to his fellow man for his religious opinions, being responsible therefore only to his God.
Cuba ought to be free and independent, and the government should be turned over to the Cuban people.
The bud of victory is always in the truth.
God knows I detest slavery but it is an existing evil, and we must endure it and give it such protection as is guaranteed by the Constitution.
I like the noise of democracy.
We can't help everyone, but everyone can help someone.
Believe you can and you're halfway there.
Let us never forget that government is ourselves and not an alien power over us. The ultimate rulers of our democracy are not a President and senators and congressmen and government officials, but the voters of this country.
Slavery exists. It is black in the South, and white in the North.
That's all a man can hope for during his lifetime - to set an example - and when he is dead, to be an inspiration for history.
I don't know much about Americanism, but it's a damn good word with which to carry an election.
Nations, like individuals in a state of nature, are equal and independent, possessing certain rights and owing certain duties to each other.
The dangers of a concentration of all power in the general government of a confederacy so vast as ours are too obvious to be disregarded.
The health of the people is of supreme importance. All measures looking to their protection against the spread of contagious diseases and to the increase of our sanitary knowledge for such purposes deserve attention of Congress.
You cannot escape the responsibility of tomorrow by evading it today.
The only thing we have to fear is fear itself.
The man who reads nothing at all is better educated than the man who reads nothing but newspapers.
It is better to be alone than in bad company.
Corruption is a cancer: a cancer that eats away at a citizen's faith in democracy, diminishes the instinct for innovation and creativity; already-tight national budgets, crowding out important national investments. It wastes the talent of entire generations. It scares away investments and jobs.
All growth depends upon activity. There is no development physically or intellectually without effort, and effort means work.
Remember, democracy never lasts long. It soon wastes, exhausts, and murders itself. There never was a democracy yet that did not commit suicide.
We are not about to send American boys 9 or 10 thousand miles away from home to do what Asian boys ought to be doing for themselves.
I've looked on many women with lust. I've committed adultery in my heart many times. God knows I will do this and forgives me.
Any man worth his salt will stick up for what he believes right, but it takes a slightly better man to acknowledge instantly and without reservation that he is in error.
A brave man is a man who dares to look the Devil in the face and tell him he is a Devil.
I not only use all the brains that I have, but all that I can borrow.
You can put wings on a pig, but you don't make it an eagle.
We are all imperfect. We can not expect perfect government.
For more than a quarter of a century on active duty, my house has been my tent, and my home the battlefield.
As to the presidency, the two happiest days of my life were those of my entrance upon the office and my surrender of it.
If I am shot at, I want no man to be in the way of the bullet.
I contend that the strongest of all governments is that which is most free.
To vote is like the payment of a debt, a duty never to be neglected, if its performance is possible.
A Republic without parties is a complete anomaly. The histories of all popular governments show absurd is the idea of their attempting to exist without parties.
The extravagant expenditure of public money is an evil not to be measured by the value of that money to the people who are taxed for it.
Sir, my concern is not whether God is on our side; my greatest concern is to be on God's side, for God is always right.
Let every nation know, whether it wishes us well or ill, that we shall pay any price, bear any burden, meet any hardship, support any friend, oppose any foe to assure the survival and the success of liberty.
Money is not the only answer, but it makes a difference.
The supreme quality for leadership is unquestionably integrity. Without it, no real success is possible, no matter whether it is on a section gang, a football field, in an army, or in an office.
Guard against the impostures of pretended patriotism.
Our future cannot depend on the government alone. The ultimate solutions lie in the attitudes and the actions of the American people.
Everyone has his superstitions. One of mine has always been when I started to go anywhere, or to do anything, never to turn back or to stop until the thing intended was accomplished.
You aren't learning anything when you're talking.
We must adjust to changing times and still hold to unchanging principles.
Economic depression cannot be cured by legislative action or executive pronouncement. Economic wounds must be healed by the action of the cells of the economic body - the producers and consumers themselves.
Every good citizen makes his country's honor his own, and cherishes it not only as precious but as sacred. He is willing to risk his life in its defense and is conscious that he gains protection while he gives it.
A pound of pluck is worth a ton of luck.
If you want to make enemies, try to change something.
Work is about more than making a living, as vital as that is. It's fundamental to human dignity, to our sense of self-worth as useful, independent, free people.
In no case can I permit myself to be a candidate of any party or yield myself to any party schemes.
No evil can result from its inhibition more pernicious than its toleration.
There are no good laws but such as repeal other laws.
The only legitimate right to govern is an express grant of power from the governed.
War should never be entered upon until every agency of peace has failed.
No other people have a government more worthy of their respect and love or a land so magnificent in extent, so pleasant to look upon, and so full of generous suggestion to enterprise and labor.
The ballot box is the surest arbiter of disputes among free men.
Government's first duty is to protect the people, not run their lives.
Far and away the best prize that life has to offer is the chance to work hard at work worth doing.
We, the People, recognize that we have responsibilities as well as rights; that our destinies are bound together; that a freedom which only asks what's in it for me, a freedom without a commitment to others, a freedom without love or charity or duty or patriotism, is unworthy of our founding ideals, and those who died in their defense.
A people that values its privileges above its principles soon loses both.
If you can't stand the heat, get out of the kitchen.
Collecting more taxes than is absolutely necessary is legalized robbery.
A government of laws, and not of men.
Never let your head hang down. Never give up and sit down and grieve. Find another way. And don't pray when it rains if you don't pray when the sun shines.
The advancement and diffusion of knowledge is the only guardian of true liberty.
Some folks look at me and see a certain swagger, which in Texas is called 'walking.'
It is to be regretted that the rich and powerful too often bend the acts of government to their own selfish purposes.
If wrinkles must be written on our brows, let them not be written upon the heart. The spirit should never grow old.
In matters of style, swim with the current; in matters of principle, stand like a rock.
There is nothing new in the world except the history you do not know.
If you see ten troubles coming down the road, you can be sure that nine will run into the ditch before they reach you.
Posterity! You will never know how much it cost the present generation to preserve your freedom! I hope you will make a good use of it.
If you take no risks, you will suffer no defeats. But if you take no risks, you win no victories.
Liberty may be endangered by the abuse of liberty, but also by the abuse of power.
Terrorist attacks can shake the foundations of our biggest buildings, but they cannot touch the foundation of America. These acts shatter steel, but they cannot dent the steel of American resolve.
I know I am getting better at golf because I am hitting fewer spectators.
A new breeze is blowing, and a world refreshed by freedom seems reborn; for in man's heart, if not in fact, the day of the dictator is over. The totalitarian era is passing, its old ideas blown away like leaves from an ancient, lifeless tree.
Democracy, pure democracy, has at least its foundation in a generous theory of human rights. It is founded on the natural equality of mankind. It is the cornerstone of the Christian religion. It is the first element of all lawful government upon earth.
Sensible and responsible women do not want to vote. The relative positions to be assumed by man and woman in the working out of our civilization were assigned long ago by a higher intelligence than ours.
Failure to accord credit to anyone for what he may have done is a great weakness in any man.
No president who performs his duties faithfully and conscientiously can have any leisure.
It was by one Union that we achieved our independence and liberties, and by it alone can they be maintained.
Pleasure has ever more been represented by poets and by painters as clothed in perpetual smiles and adorned with the richest jewels; and in real life, we have known many who, allured by her deceptions, blandishments, and hollow but showy temptations, have followed as she pointed until ruin has befallen them.
Conscience is the authentic voice of God to you.
Upon you, fellow-citizens, as the representatives of the States and the people, is wisely devolved the legislative power.
As is natural with contiguous states having like institutions and like aims of advancement and development, the friendship of the United States and Mexico has been constantly maintained.
How many legs does a dog have if you call his tail a leg? Four. Saying that a tail is a leg doesn't make it a leg.
Physical fitness is not only one of the most important keys to a healthy body, it is the basis of dynamic and creative intellectual activity.
If civilization is to survive, we must cultivate the science of human relationships - the ability of all peoples, of all kinds, to live together, in the same world at peace.
Nothing can stop the man with the right mental attitude from achieving his goal; nothing on earth can help the man with the wrong mental attitude.
To be prepared for war is one of the most effective means of preserving peace.
Fighting corruption is not just good governance. It's self-defense. It's patriotism.
I have never advocated war except as a means of peace.
Jerry Ford is so dumb he can't fart and chew gum at the same time.
I'll never tell a lie. I'll never make a misleading statement. I'll never betray the confidence that any of you had in me. And I'll never avoid a controversial issue.
All men are equal before fish.
I am a Ford, not a Lincoln.
I'm conservative, but I'm not a nut about it.
Gratitude, warm, sincere, intense, when it takes possession of the bosom, fills the soul to overflowing and scarce leaves room for any other sentiment or thought.
Character is a journey, not a destination.
No tendency is quite so strong in human nature as the desire to lay down rules of conduct for other people.
Minorities have a right to appeal to the Constitution as a shield against such oppression.
I feel incompetent to perform duties... which have been so unexpectedly thrown upon me.
The chains of military despotism, once fastened upon a nation, ages might pass away before they could be shaken off.
One of the tests of the civilization of people is the treatment of its criminals.
When and under what conditions is the black man to have a free ballot? When is he in fact to have those full civil rights which have so long been his in law?
It is provided by the Constitution that the President shall from time to time give to the Congress information of the state of the Union and recommend to their consideration such measures as he shall judge necessary and expedient.
I am a firm believer in the people. If given the truth, they can be depended upon to meet any national crisis. The great point is to bring them the real facts.
As we express our gratitude, we must never forget that the highest appreciation is not to utter words, but to live by them.
Honesty is the first chapter in the book of wisdom.
Associate with men of good quality if you esteem your own reputation; for it is better to be alone than in bad company.
My father used to have an expression. He'd say, 'Joey, a job is about a lot more than a paycheck. It's about your dignity. It's about respect. It's about your place in your community.'
Hold fast to the Bible. To the influence of this Book we are indebted for all the progress made in true civilization and to this we must look as our guide in the future.
Let us tenderly and kindly cherish, therefore, the means of knowledge. Let us dare to read, think, speak, and write.
Being president is like being a jackass in a hailstorm. There's nothing to do but to stand there and take it.
Globalization, as defined by rich people like us, is a very nice thing... you are talking about the Internet, you are talking about cell phones, you are talking about computers. This doesn't affect two-thirds of the people of the world.
About the time we can make the ends meet, somebody moves the ends.
History and experience tell us that moral progress comes not in comfortable and complacent times, but out of trial and confusion.
The ear of the leader must ring with the voices of the people.
When we make college more affordable, we make the American dream more achievable.
Anti-Semitism is a noxious weed that should be cut out. It has no place in America.
One great object of the Constitution was to restrain majorities from oppressing minorities or encroaching upon their just rights.
Our country may be likened to a new house. We lack many things, but we possess the most precious of all - liberty!
Outside of the Constitution we have no legal authority more than private citizens, and within it we have only so much as that instrument gives us. This broad principle limits all our functions and applies to all subjects.
Sir, I wish to understand the true principles of the Government. I wish them carried out. I ask nothing more.
Universal suffrage should rest upon universal education. To this end, liberal and permanent provision should be made for the support of free schools by the State governments, and, if need be, supplemented by legitimate aid from national authority.
The countries of the American continent and the adjacent islands are for the United States the natural marts of supply and demand.
Most folks are as happy as they make up their minds to be.
One cool judgment is worth a thousand hasty counsels. The thing to do is to supply light and not heat.
The ship of democracy, which has weathered all storms, may sink through the mutiny of those on board.
It would be judicious to act with magnanimity towards a prostrate foe.
The less government interferes with private pursuits, the better for general prosperity.
The best form of government is that which is most likely to prevent the greatest sum of evil.
The applause of his native land is the richest reward to which the patriot ever aspires. It is this for which 'he bears to live or dares to die.' It is the high incentive to those achievements which illustrate the page of history and give to poetry its brightest charm.
Let us ever remember that our interest is in concord, not in conflict; and that our real eminence rests in the victories of peace, not those of war.
To avoid entangling alliances has been a maxim of our policy ever since the days of Washington, and its wisdom no one will attempt to dispute.
If we ever forget that we are One Nation Under God, then we will be a nation gone under.
Far better is it to dare mighty things, to win glorious triumphs, even though checkered by failure... than to rank with those poor spirits who neither enjoy nor suffer much, because they live in a gray twilight that knows not victory nor defeat.
Democracy cannot succeed unless those who express their choice are prepared to choose wisely. The real safeguard of democracy, therefore, is education.
Why can't I just eat my waffle?
I hate war as only a soldier who has lived it can, only as one who has seen its brutality, its futility, its stupidity.
I never did give anybody hell. I just told the truth and they thought it was hell.
Don't expect to build up the weak by pulling down the strong.
The Cold War isn't thawing; it is burning with a deadly heat. Communism isn't sleeping; it is, as always, plotting, scheming, working, fighting.
It will be of little avail to the people that the laws are made by men of their own choice if the laws be so voluminous that they cannot be read, or so incoherent that they cannot be understood.
America is the land of the second chance - and when the gates of the prison open, the path ahead should lead to a better life.
Take time to deliberate; but when the time for action arrives, stop thinking and go in.
Whoever controls the volume of money in any country is absolute master of all industry and commerce.
America is never wholly herself unless she is engaged in high moral principle. We as a people have such a purpose today. It is to make kinder the face of the nation and gentler the face of the world.
It is among the evils of slavery that it taints the very sources of moral principle. It establishes false estimates of virtue and vice: for what can be more false and heartless than this doctrine which makes the first and holiest rights of humanity to depend upon the color of the skin?
I have tried so hard to do right.
As to the Constitution and the Union, I have taken an oath to support the one, and I cannot do so without preserving the other, unless I commit perjury, which I certainly don't intend to do. We must cherish the Constitution to the last.
Mutual forbearance and reciprocal concessions: thro' their agency the Union was established - the patriotic spirit from which they emanated will forever sustain it.
My own personal popularity can have no influence over me when the dictates of my best judgment and the obligations of an oath require of me a particular course. Under such circumstances, whether I sink or swim on the tide of popular favor is, to me, a matter of inferior consideration.
The free man cannot be long an ignorant man.
This Government has found occasion to express, in a friendly spirit, but with much earnestness, to the Government of the Czar, its serious concern because of the harsh measures now being enforced against the Hebrews in Russia.
Peace is not absence of conflict, it is the ability to handle conflict by peaceful means.
No man is above the law and no man is below it: nor do we ask any man's permission when we ask him to obey it.
I ask you to judge me by the enemies I have made.
Now, as a nation, we don't promise equal outcomes, but we were founded on the idea everybody should have an equal opportunity to succeed. No matter who you are, what you look like, where you come from, you can make it. That's an essential promise of America. Where you start should not determine where you end up.
If you want total security, go to prison. There you're fed, clothed, given medical care and so on. The only thing lacking... is freedom.
Men make history and not the other way around. In periods where there is no leadership, society stands still. Progress occurs when courageous, skillful leaders seize the opportunity to change things for the better.
I propose to fight it out on this line if it takes all summer.
Don't get the impression that you arouse my anger. You see, one can only be angry with those he respects.
The essence of Government is power; and power, lodged as it must be in human hands, will ever be liable to abuse.
Whatever starts in California unfortunately has an inclination to spread.
It is a paradox that every dictator has climbed to power on the ladder of free speech. Immediately on attaining power each dictator has suppressed all free speech except his own.
Our Constitution works; our great republic is a government of laws and not of men. Here, the people rule.
Read my lips: no new taxes.
Being president is like running a cemetery: you've got a lot of people under you and nobody's listening.
Enthusiasm for a cause sometimes warps judgment.
Foreign powers do not seem to appreciate the true character of our government.
In the wars of the European powers in matters relating to themselves we have never taken any part, not does it comport with our policy so to do. It is only when our rights are invaded or seriously menaced that we resent injuries or make preparation for our defence.
Legislation can neither be wise nor just which seeks the welfare of a single interest at the expense and to the injury of many and varied interests.
I believe and I say it is true Democratic feeling, that all the measures of the Government are directed to the purpose of making the rich richer and the poor poorer.
The President of the United States should strive to be always mindful of the fact that he serves his party best who serves his country best.
When you can't make them see the light, make them feel the heat.
If you could kick the person in the pants responsible for most of your trouble, you wouldn't sit for a month.
If the people cannot trust their government to do the job for which it exists - to protect them and to promote their common welfare - all else is lost.
This world of ours... must avoid becoming a community of dreadful fear and hate, and be, instead, a proud confederation of mutual trust and respect.
In reading the lives of great men, I found that the first victory they won was over themselves... self-discipline with all of them came first.
The nation which forgets its defenders will be itself forgotten.
Liberty cannot be preserved without general knowledge among the people.
Those who hate you don't win unless you hate them, and then you destroy yourself.
As long as the reason of man continues fallible, and he is at liberty to exercise it, different opinions will be formed.
Use power to help people. For we are given power not to advance our own purposes nor to make a great show in the world, nor a name. There is but one just use of power and it is to serve people.
Money is power, and in that government which pays all the public officers of the states will all political power be substantially concentrated.
Next in importance to freedom and justice is popular education, without which neither freedom nor justice can be permanently maintained.
Things do not happen. Things are made to happen.
I like the dreams of the future better than the history of the past.
Discipline is the soul of an army. It makes small numbers formidable; procures success to the weak, and esteem to all.
The greatest gift is the ability to forget - to forget the bad things and focus on the good.
The man who builds a factory builds a temple, that the man who works there worships there, and to each is due, not scorn and blame, but reverence and praise.
I must study politics and war that my sons may have liberty to study mathematics and philosophy.
There are no problems we cannot solve together, and very few that we can solve by ourselves.
You can fool some of the people all the time, and those are the ones you want to concentrate on.
Peace, above all things, is to be desired, but blood must sometimes be spilled to obtain it on equable and lasting terms.
I mean to make myself a man, and if I succeed in that, I shall succeed in everything else.
The history of liberty is a history of resistance.
To read the Bible is of itself a laudable occupation and can scarcely fail of being a useful employment of time; but the habit of reflecting upon what you have read is equally essential as than of reading itself, to give it all the efficacy of which it is susceptible.
It is better to be defeated standing for a high principle than to run by committing subterfuge.
I will not say I would not serve if the good people were imprudent enough to elect me.
For myself, therefore, I desire to declare that the principle that will govern me in the high duty to which my country calls me is a strict adherence to the letter and spirit of the Constitution as it was designed by those who framed it.
A republican government can only be supported by virtue; and the end of all our legislation should be to encourage our fellow citizens in its daily practice.
I have never been in doubt since I was old enough to think intelligently that I would someday be made president.
There never has been a time in our history when work was so abundant or when wages were as high, whether measured by the currency in which they are paid or by their power to supply the necessaries and comforts of life.
All that I am, or hope to be, I owe to my angel mother.
Victory has a thousand fathers, but defeat is an orphan.
Take a method and try it. If it fails, admit it frankly, and try another. But by all means, try something.
When angry count to ten before you speak. If very angry, count to one hundred.
Let us raise a standard to which the wise and honest can repair; the rest is in the hands of God.
The effects of climate change are real and must be acted on.
Labor disgraces no man; unfortunately, you occasionally find men who disgrace labor.
The vote is the most powerful instrument ever devised by man for breaking down injustice and destroying the terrible walls which imprison men because they are different from other men.
I have often wanted to drown my troubles, but I can't get my wife to go swimming.
Words without actions are the assassins of idealism.
Truth is the glue that holds government together.
What's wrong with being a boring kind of guy?
Where annual elections end where slavery begins.
In today's knowledge-based economy, what you earn depends on what you learn. Jobs in the information technology sector, for example, pay 85 percent more than the private sector average.
Socialism proposes no adequate substitute for the motive of enlightened selfishness that today is at the basis of all human labor and effort, enterprise and new activity.
I cannot adequately express the horror I feel for a man who can be so base as to veil his hypocrisy under the cloak of religion, and state the base falsehood he has done.
Who, then, will govern? The answer must be, Man - for we have no angels in the shape of men, as yet, who are willing to take charge of our political affairs.
I believe that all the measures of the Government are directed to the purpose of making the rich richer and the poor poorer.
Law without education is a dead letter. With education the needed law follows without effort and, of course, with power to execute itself; indeed, it seems to execute itself.
I knew that my staying up would not change the election result if I were defeated, while if elected I had a hard day ahead of me. So I thought a night's rest was best in any event.
I don't like that man. I must get to know him better.
Forgive your enemies, but never forget their names.
My fellow Americans, we are and always will be a nation of immigrants. We were strangers once, too.
It is better to offer no excuse than a bad one.
When the stock market crashed, Franklin Roosevelt got on the television and didn't just talk about the princes of greed. He said, 'Look, here's what happened.'
I know only two tunes: one of them is 'Yankee Doodle', and the other isn't.
Defeat doesn't finish a man, quit does. A man is not finished when he's defeated. He's finished when he quits.
Until justice is blind to color, until education is unaware of race, until opportunity is unconcerned with the color of men's skins, emancipation will be a proclamation but not a fact.
We've become, now, an oligarchy instead of a democracy. I think that's been the worst damage to the basic moral and ethical standards to the American political system that I've ever seen in my life.
Competition is not only the basis of protection to the consumer, but is the incentive to progress.
Teddy Roosevelt... once said, 'Speak softly and carry a big stick.' Jimmy Carter wants to speak loudly and carry a fly swatter.
I stand for anti-bigotry, anti-Semitism, and anti-racism.
We must teach our children to resolve their conflicts with words, not weapons.
Substantial progress toward better things can rarely be taken without developing new evils requiring new remedies.
The most energetic and prompt measures and the immediate appearance in arms of a large and overpowering force are recommended to Congress as the most certain and efficient means of bringing the existing collision with Mexico to a speedy and successful termination.
It is the knowledge that all men have weaknesses and that many have vices that makes government necessary.
Popularity, I have always thought, may aptly be compared to a coquette - the more you woo her, the more apt is she to elude your embrace.
Our differences are policies; our agreements, principles.
How do you tell a communist? Well, it's someone who reads Marx and Lenin. And how do you tell an anti-Communist? It's someone who understands Marx and Lenin.
To educate a man in mind and not in morals is to educate a menace to society.
There are as many opinions as there are experts.
Question with boldness even the existence of a God; because, if there be one, he must more approve of the homage of reason, than that of blind-folded fear.
Liberty has never come from Government. Liberty has always come from the subjects of it. The history of liberty is a history of limitations of governmental power, not the increase of it.
Officeholders are the agents of the people, not their masters.
Soldiers, I intend to stay here, not only as long as a man remains, but as long as a piece of a man is left.
The government should not be guided by Temporary Excitement, but by Sober Second Thought.
Preparation for war is a constant stimulus to suspicion and ill will.
Our form of government can no longer be considered an experiment in politics. Crowned with success, it stands forth an example to the world and exhibits the proudest triumph of reason and philosophy.
The mission of the United States is one of benevolent assimilation.
We are never defeated unless we give up on God.
The only man who never makes a mistake is the man who never does anything.
The test of our progress is not whether we add more to the abundance of those who have much it is whether we provide enough for those who have little.
I have sworn upon the altar of God, eternal hostility against every form of tyranny over the mind of man.
Peace and justice are two sides of the same coin.
Richard Nixon is a no good, lying bastard. He can lie out of both sides of his mouth at the same time, and if he ever caught himself telling the truth, he'd lie just to keep his hand in.
There is no dignity quite so impressive, and no one independence quite so important, as living within your means.
Fear is the foundation of most governments.
The truth is that all men having power ought to be mistrusted.
You teach a child to read, and he or her will be able to pass a literacy test.
You must pay the price if you wish to secure the blessing.
If the power to do hard work is not a skill, it's the best possible substitute for it.
If a dog will not come to you after having looked you in the face, you should go home and examine your conscience.
It is of no use to discover our own faults and infirmities unless the discovery prompts up to amendment.
Your every voter, as surely as your chief magistrate, exercises a public trust.
Economy I consider a virtue & should be practiced by all; there is certainly no way in which money can be laid out than in the education of children.
With respect to the northeastern boundary of the United States, no official correspondence between this Government and that of Great Britain has passed since that communicated to Congress toward the close of their last session.
If the rabble were lopped off at one end and the aristocrats at the other, all would be well with the country.
No person connected with me by blood or marriage will be appointed to office.
I am not bound to win, but I am bound to be true. I am not bound to succeed, but I am bound to live by the light that I have. I must stand with anybody that stands right, and stand with him while he is right, and part with him when he goes wrong.
Let us never negotiate out of fear. But let us never fear to negotiate.
We cannot continue to rely only on our military in order to achieve the national security objectives that we've set. We've got to have a civilian national security force that's just as powerful, just as strong, just as well-funded.
Farming looks mighty easy when your plow is a pencil and you're a thousand miles from the corn field.
It's a recession when your neighbor loses his job; it's a depression when you lose yours.
My dad always said, 'Champ, the measure of a man is not how often he is knocked down, but how quickly he gets up.'
If men make war in slavish obedience to rules, they will fail.
Remember, always give your best. Never get discouraged. Never be petty. Always remember, others may hate you. But those who hate you don't win unless you hate them. And then you destroy yourself.
Unless both sides win, no agreement can be permanent.
The great liability of the engineer compared to men of other professions is that his works are out in the open where all can see them. His acts, step by step, are in hard substance. He cannot bury his mistakes in the grave like the doctors. He cannot argue them into thin air or blame the judge like the lawyers.
I watch a lot of baseball on the radio.
The ideal college is Mark Hopkins on one end of a log and a student on the other.
The government, which was designed for the people, has got into the hands of the bosses and their employers, the special interests. An invisible empire has been set up above the forms of democracy.
Sometimes when people are under stress, they hate to think, and it's the time when they most need to think.
Politics makes me sick.
It seems proper, at all events, that by an early enactment similar to that of other countries the application of public money by an officer of Government to private uses should be made a felony and visited with severe and ignominious punishment.
I hold it the duty of the executive to insist upon frugality in the expenditure, and a sparing economy is itself a great national source.
I am a tariff man, standing on a tariff platform.
There are no great limits to growth because there are no limits of human intelligence, imagination, and wonder.
No man has a good enough memory to be a successful liar.
The greater our knowledge increases the more our ignorance unfolds.
Focusing your life solely on making a buck shows a certain poverty of ambition. It asks too little of yourself. Because it's only when you hitch your wagon to something larger than yourself that you realize your true potential.
There's no tragedy in life like the death of a child. Things never get back to the way they were.
A pessimist is one who makes difficulties of his opportunities and an optimist is one who makes opportunities of his difficulties.
I have made it a rule of my life to trust a man long after other people gave him up, but I don't see how I can ever trust any human being again.
You won't have Nixon to kick around anymore, because, gentlemen, this is my last press conference.
A popular government without popular information or the means of acquiring it, is but a prologue to a farce, or a tragedy, or perhaps both.
I had to abandon free market principles in order to save the free market system.
All the rights secured to the citizens under the Constitution are worth nothing, and a mere bubble, except guaranteed to them by an independent and virtuous Judiciary.
Things are more like today than they have ever been before.
I'm going to be so much better a president for having been at the CIA that you're not going to believe it.
From the day of the Declaration, the people of the North American union, and of its constituent states, were associated bodies of civilized men and Christians, in a state of nature, but not of anarchy.
What is the use of being elected or re-elected, unless you stand for something?
My duty to the army and to the republic whose battles we were waging forbade me assuming a position of seeming hostility to any portion of the brave men under my command.
True friendship is a plant of slow growth, and must undergo and withstand the shocks of adversity, before it is entitled to the appellation.
We cannot do everything at once, but we can do something at once.
Because power corrupts, society's demands for moral authority and character increase as the importance of the position increases.
If two men agree on everything, you may be sure that one of them is doing the thinking.
The happy Union of these States is a wonder; their Constitution a miracle; their example the hope of Liberty throughout the world.
I can hear you, the rest of the world can hear you and the people who knocked these buildings down will hear all of us soon.
There are no necessary evils in government. Its evils exist only in its abuses.
We don't want an America that is closed to the world. What we want is a world that is open to America.
Nip the shoots of arbitrary power in the bud, is the only maxim which can ever preserve the liberties of any people.
Party honesty is party expediency.
In all disputes between conflicting governments, it is our interest not less than our duty to remain strictly neutral.
With me it is exceptionally true that the Presidency is no bed of roses.
If we look to the history of other nations, ancient or modern, we find no example of a growth so rapid, so gigantic, of a people so prosperous and happy.
Parties are continually changing. The men of today give place to the men of tomorrow, and the idols which one set worship, the next destroy.
I am a radical in thought (and principle) and a conservative in method (and conduct).
Speak softly and carry a big stick; you will go far.
Happiness lies in the joy of achievement and the thrill of creative effort.
Timid men prefer the calm of despotism to the tempestuous sea of liberty.
Be courteous to all, but intimate with few, and let those few be well tried before you give them your confidence.
No fundamental social change occurs merely because government acts. It's because civil society, the conscience of a country, begins to rise up and demand - demand - demand change.
No man ever listened himself out of a job.
The happiness of society is the end of government.
I have learned that only two things are necessary to keep one's wife happy. First, let her think she's having her own way. And second, let her have it.
War may sometimes be a necessary evil. But no matter how necessary, it is always an evil, never a good. We will not learn how to live together in peace by killing each other's children.
Honor is not the exclusive property of any political party.
Things don't turn up in this world until somebody turns them up.
A conservative is a man who just sits and thinks, mostly sits.
I still believe in a place called Hope.
I am in favor of helping the prosperity of all countries because, when we are all prosperous, the trade with each becomes more valuable to the other.
It becomes us in humility to make our devout acknowledgments to the Supreme Ruler of the Universe for the inestimable civil and religious blessings with which we are favored.
The principles and passions of men are always the same and lead to the same result, varying only according to the circumstances in which they are placed.
I am sworn to uphold the Constitution as Andy Johnson understands it and interprets it.
Expositions are the timekeepers of progress.
The future doesn't belong to the fainthearted; it belongs to the brave.
There are risks and costs to action. But they are far less than the long range risks of comfortable inaction.
I believe marriage is between a man and a woman. I am not in favor of gay marriage. But when you start playing around with constitutions, just to prohibit somebody who cares about another person, it just seems to me that's not what America's about. Usually, our constitutions expand liberties, they don't contract them.
What counts is not necessarily the size of the dog in the fight - it's the size of the fight in the dog.
The Constitution is the guide which I never will abandon.
For any young democracy, the most difficult but important step is burying the legacy of tyranny and establishing an economy and a government and institutions that abide by the rule of law. Every country faces challenges to the rule of law, including my own.
Leave the matter of religion to the family altar, the church, and the private school, supported entirely by private contributions. Keep the church and state forever separate.
You must pursue this investigation of Watergate even if it leads to the president. I'm innocent. You've got to believe I'm innocent. If you don't, take my job.
Aggression unopposed becomes a contagious disease.
Children are our most valuable natural resource.
My fellow Americans, our long national nightmare is over.
One of the good things about the way the Gulf War ended in 1991 is, you'd see the Vietnam veterans marching with the Gulf War veterans.
There can be no equality or opportunity if men and women and children be not shielded in their lives from the consequences of great industrial and social processes which they cannot alter, control, or singly cope with.
Strength and wisdom are not opposing values.
The world is not going to be saved by legislation.
Our relations with the various Indian tribes continue to be of a pacific character.
The civil war which has so long prevailed between Spain and the Provinces in South America still continues, without any prospect of its speedy termination.
Government's view of the economy could be summed up in a few short phrases: If it moves, tax it. If it keeps moving, regulate it. And if it stops moving, subsidize it.
With self-discipline most anything is possible.
It is common sense to take a method and try it. If it fails, admit it frankly and try another. But above all, try something.
If a nation expects to be ignorant and free, in a state of civilization, it expects what never was and never will be.
Liberty, when it begins to take root, is a plant of rapid growth.
When even one American - who has done nothing wrong - is forced by fear to shut his mind and close his mouth - then all Americans are in peril.
Perhaps one of the most important accomplishments of my administration has been minding my own business.
Power always thinks... that it is doing God's service when it is violating all his laws.
You do not examine legislation in the light of the benefits it will convey if properly administered, but in the light of the wrongs it would do and the harms it would cause if improperly administered.
Republicans are men of narrow vision, who are afraid of the future.
Between Russia and the United States sentiments of good will continue to be mutually cherished.
A manufacturing nation is, in every sense of the word, dependent on others. Look to England! Cut off from the markets of the world, misery and ruin await her.
Must swear off from swearing. Bad habit.
I do the very best I know how - the very best I can; and I mean to keep on doing so until the end.
It is hard to fail, but it is worse never to have tried to succeed.
There are many ways of going forward, but only one way of standing still.
Do you want to know who you are? Don't ask. Act! Action will delineate and define you.
A leader in the Democratic Party is a boss, in the Republican Party he is a leader.
If you don't say anything, you won't be called on to repeat it.
The Hebrews have done more to civilize men than any other nation. If I were an atheist, and believed blind eternal fate, I should still believe that fate had ordained the Jews to be the most essential instrument for civilizing the nations.
Education is not a problem. Education is an opportunity.
It is a universal truth that the loss of liberty at home is to be charged to the provisions against danger, real or pretended, from abroad.
It is clear our nation is reliant upon big foreign oil. More and more of our imports come from overseas.
The people are the government, administering it by their agents; they are the government, the sovereign power.
I have had many troubles in my life, but the worst of them never came.
America does not go abroad in search of monsters to destroy.
In the scheme of our national government, the presidency is preeminently the people's office.
I congratulate you, my fellow-citizens, upon the high state of prosperity to which the goodness of Divine Providence has conducted our common country.
The national will is the supreme law of the Republic, and on all subjects within the limits of his constitutional powers should be faithfully obeyed by the public servant.
So far as it depends on the course of this government, our relations of good will and friendship will be sedulously cultivated with all nations.
The truth is, this being errand boy to one hundred and fifty thousand people tires me so by night I am ready for bed instead of soirees.
Character is like a tree and reputation like a shadow. The shadow is what we think of it; the tree is the real thing.
When written in Chinese, the word 'crisis' is composed of two characters. One represents danger and the other represents opportunity.
It took a lot of blood, sweat and tears to get to where we are today, but we have just begun. Today we begin in earnest the work of making sure that the world we leave our children is just a little bit better than the one we inhabit today.
Neither a wise man nor a brave man lies down on the tracks of history to wait for the train of the future to run over him.
For too long in this society, we have celebrated unrestrained individualism over common community.
If you see the President, tell him from me that whatever happens there will be no turning back.
If you want to make beautiful music, you must play the black and the white notes together.
The purpose of separation of church and state is to keep forever from these shores the ceaseless strife that has soaked the soil of Europe with blood for centuries.
When I take action, I'm not going to fire a $2 million missile at a $10 empty tent and hit a camel in the butt. It's going to be decisive.
Heaven will be no heaven to me if I do not meet my wife there.
I am acutely aware that you have not elected me as your President by your ballots, so I ask you to confirm me with your prayers.
I have survivor's curiosity, I guess.
It was the special purpose of Christ's appearance upon earth to bring immortality to light.
As the Republican platforms says, the welfare of the farmer is vital to that of the whole country.
Under the benignant providence of Almighty God the representatives of the States and of the people are again brought together to deliberate for the public good.
Never did a government commence under auspices so favorable, nor ever was success so complete.
The sailor's life is at the best a life of danger. He pursues honor on the mountain wave and finds it in the battle and in the storm, and never did more distinguished chivalry display itself than in the conduct of our seamen during the late war.
Trust, but verify.
A man who has never gone to school may steal from a freight car; but if he has a university education, he may steal the whole railroad.
A conservative is a man with two perfectly good legs who, however, has never learned how to walk forward.
You don't lead by hitting people over the head - that's assault, not leadership.
Actions are the seed of fate deeds grow into destiny.
I have never been hurt by what I have not said.
There is danger from all men. The only maxim of a free government ought to be to trust no man living with power to endanger the public liberty.
People react to fear, not love; they don't teach that in Sunday School, but it's true.
A well regulated militia, composed of the body of the people, trained in arms, is the best most natural defense of a free country.
We've climbed the mighty mountain. I see the valley below, and it's a valley of peace.
The planter, the farmer, the mechanic, and the laborer... form the great body of the people of the United States, they are the bone and sinew of the country men who love liberty and desire nothing but equal rights and equal laws.
Nobody but radicals have ever accomplished anything in a great crisis.
Heaven has given to every human being the power of controlling his passions, and if he neglects or loses it, the fault is his own, and he must be answerable for it.
He mocks the people who proposes that the government shall protect the rich and that they in turn will care for the laboring poor.
The appointing power vested in the president imposes delicate and onerous duties. So far as it is possible to be informed, I shall make honesty, capacity, and fidelity indispensable prerequisites to the disposal of office, and the absence of either of these qualities shall be deemed sufficient cause for removal.
In a government whose distinguishing characteristic should be a diffusion and equalization of its benefits and burdens the advantage of individuals will be augmented at the expense of the community at large.
We direct the destinies of a mighty continent. Our resources are unlimited: our means unbounded. If we be true to ourselves, the glory of other nations, in comparison to ours, shall resemble but a tale from the days of chivalry.
As friends go it is less important to live.
We the people are the rightful masters of both Congress and the courts, not to overthrow the Constitution but to overthrow the men who pervert the Constitution.
The ignorance of one voter in a democracy impairs the security of all.
Understand, our police officers put their lives on the line for us every single day. They've got a tough job to do to maintain public safety and hold accountable those who break the law.
We are going to have peace even if we have to fight for it.
Peace is not made at the council table or by treaties, but in the hearts of men.
Ideas control the world.
Never attempt to murder a man who is committing suicide.
I am grateful to President George W. Bush for PEPFAR, which is saving the lives of millions of people in poor countries and to both Presidents Bush for the work we've done together after the South Asia tsunami, Hurricane Katrina and the Haitian earthquake.
I would rather the man who presents something for my consideration subject me to a zephyr of truth and a gentle breeze of responsibility rather than blow me down with a curtain of hot wind.
I cannot in any case permit myself to be brought before the people, exclusively, by any of the political parties that now so unfortunately divide our country, as their candidate for office.
I tread in the footsteps of illustrious men... in receiving from the people the sacred trust confided to my illustrious predecessor.
Virtue is defined to be mediocrity, of which either extreme is vice.
Be sure you put your feet in the right place, then stand firm.
Too often we... enjoy the comfort of opinion without the discomfort of thought.
I've got a pen and I've got a phone - and I can use that pen to sign executive orders and take executive actions and administrative actions that move the ball forward.
Rightful liberty is unobstructed action according to our will within limits drawn around us by the equal rights of others. I do not add 'within the limits of the law' because law is often but the tyrant's will, and always so when it violates the rights of the individual.
Observe good faith and justice toward all nations. Cultivate peace and harmony with all.
No one ever doubts that I mean what I say. The problem is I sometimes say all that I mean.
I know no method to secure the repeal of bad or obnoxious laws so effective as their stringent execution.
I will do my best. That is all I can do. I ask for your help - and God's.
If you're totally illiterate and living on one dollar a day, the benefits of globalization never come to you.
The use of the atomic bomb, with its indiscriminate killing of women and children, revolts my soul.
When a man is asked to make a speech, the first thing he has to decide is what to say.
I'm a conservative, but I'm not a nut about it.
Neutrality is a negative word. It does not express what America ought to feel. We are not trying to keep out of trouble; we are trying to preserve the foundations on which peace may be rebuilt.
Our democracy must be not only the envy of the world but the engine of our own renewal. There is nothing wrong with America that cannot be cured by what is right with America.
I do not believe in the divinity of Christ, and there are many other of the postulates of the orthodox creed to which I cannot subscribe.
I would bring the government back to what it was intended to be - a plain economical government.
National honor is the national property of the highest value.
It has been said that politics is the second oldest profession. I have learned that it bears a striking resemblance to the first.
A thorough knowledge of the Bible is worth more than a college education.
Men are not prisoners of fate, but only prisoners of their own minds.
When we get piled upon one another in large cities, as in Europe, we shall become as corrupt as Europe.
Worry is the interest paid by those who borrow trouble.
The 21st century is going to be the American century. Because we lead not only by the example of our power, but by the power of our example. That is the history of the journey of America.
Heroism is not only in the man, but in the occasion.
Democracy... while it lasts is more bloody than either aristocracy or monarchy. Remember, democracy never lasts long. It soon wastes, exhausts, and murders itself. There is never a democracy that did not commit suicide.
The guns and the bombs, the rockets and the warships, are all symbols of human failure.
I want to thank you for taking time out of your day to come and witness my hanging.
Americans are not a perfect people, but we are called to a perfect mission.
Poverty is uncomfortable; but nine times out of ten the best thing that can happen to a young man is to be tossed overboard and compelled to sink or swim.
I will keep America moving forward, always forward, for a better America, for an endless enduring dream and a thousand Points of Light. This is my mission, and I will complete it.
Is not the brand of 'double-dealer' stamped on the forehead of every democratic slaveholder? Are not fraud and hypocrisy the religion of the man who calls himself a democrat, and hold his fellow-man in bondage?
No man has ever yet been hanged for breaking the spirit of a law.
I did not expect to encounter what has beset me since my elevation to the presidency. God knows, I have endeavored to fulfill what I considered to be an honest duty, but I have been mistaken; my motives have been misconstrued and my feelings grossly betrayed.
At no period of our political existence had we so much cause to felicitate ourselves at the prosperous and happy condition of our country.
The filth and noise of the crowded streets soon destroy the elasticity of health which belongs to the country boy.
The ballot is stronger than the bullet.
We are tied to the ocean. And when we go back to the sea, whether it is to sail or to watch - we are going back from whence we came.
The only limit to our realization of tomorrow will be our doubts of today.
Our greatest happiness does not depend on the condition of life in which chance has placed us, but is always the result of a good conscience, good health, occupation, and freedom in all just pursuits.
The time is near at hand which must determine whether Americans are to be free men or slaves.
If I don't run for president, we'll all be OK.
I suffer the mortification of seeing myself attacked right and left by people at home professing patriotism and love of country who never heard the whistle of a hostile bullet. I pity them and the nation dependent on such for its existence. I am thankful, however that, though such people make a great noise, the masses are not like them.
If future generations are to remember us more with gratitude than sorrow, we must achieve more than just the miracles of technology. We must also leave them a glimpse of the world as it was created, not just as it looked when we got through with it.
We cannot be both the world's leading champion of peace and the world's leading supplier of the weapons of war.
Public health service should be as fully organized and as universally incorporated into our governmental system as is public education. The returns are a thousand fold in economic benefits, and infinitely more in reduction of suffering and promotion of human happiness.
I have had a lot of adversaries in my political life, but no enemies that I can remember.
I like a colorful sock. I'm a sock man.
The seed of revolution is repression.
I haven't eaten at a McDonald's since I became President.
I do not know much about politics, but I am trying to do the best I can with this administration until the time shall come for me to turn it over to somebody else.
The whole frame of the Federal Constitution proves that the government which it creates was intended to be one of limited and specified powers.
From several of the Indian tribes inhabiting the country bordering on Lake Erie purchases have been made of lands on conditions very favorable to the United States, and, as it is presumed, not less so to the tribes themselves.
The reward of suffering is experience.
There never was a time when, in my opinion, some way could not be found to prevent the drawing of the sword.
Always remember that others may hate you but those who hate you don't win unless you hate them. And then you destroy yourself.
A pure democracy is a society consisting of a small number of citizens, who assemble and administer the government in person.
We have a tendency to condemn people who are different from us, to define their sins as paramount and our own sinfulness as being insignificant.
When there is a lack of honor in government, the morals of the whole people are poisoned.
I love sports. Whenever I can, I always watch the Detroit Tigers on the radio.
I would rather lose in a cause that will some day win, than win in a cause that will some day lose.
Let me say this as clearly as I can: No matter how sharp a grievance or how deep a hurt, there is no justification for killing innocents.
The trouble with me is that I like to talk too much.
I am heartily rejoiced that my term is so near its close. I will soon cease to be a servant and will become a sovereign.
With European powers no new subjects of difficulty have arisen, and those which were under discussion, although not terminated, do not present a more unfavorable aspect for the future preservation of that good understanding which it has ever been our desire to cultivate.
I can never consent to being dictated to.
No government ever voluntarily reduces itself in size. Government programs, once launched, never disappear. Actually, a government bureau is the nearest thing to eternal life we'll ever see on this earth!
A vote is like a rifle; its usefulness depends upon the character of the user.
It's not surprising, then, they get bitter, they cling to guns or religion or antipathy to people who aren't like them or anti-immigrant sentiment or anti-trade sentiment as a way to explain their frustrations.
History does not long entrust the care of freedom to the weak or the timid.
I have found the best way to give advice to your children is to find out what they want and then advise them to do it.
It takes a great man to be a good listener.
The right of a nation to kill a tyrant in case of necessity can no more be doubted than to hang a robber, or kill a flea.
In the long term we can hope that religion will change the nature of man and reduce conflict. But history is not encouraging in this respect. The bloodiest wars in history have been religious wars.
The people are the only legitimate fountain of power, and it is from them that the constitutional charter, under which the several branches of government hold their power, is derived.
A dictatorship would be a heck of a lot easier, there's no question about it.
To the victors belong the spoils.
The civil service can never be placed on a satisfactory basis until it is regulated by law.
In order to preserve the dominion of our own passions, it behooves us to be constantly and strictly on our guard against the influence and infection of the passions of others.
Sometimes I wake at night in the White House and rub my eyes and wonder if it is not all a dream.
I have never yet exercised the privilege of voting, but had I been called upon at the last presidential election to do so, I should most certainly have cast my vote for Mr. Clay.
It affords me sincere pleasure to be able to apprise you of the entire removal of the Cherokee Nation of Indians to their new homes west of the Mississippi.
The tolling of yon dismal bell and the loud but solemn discharge of artillery hath announced to the nation the melancholy tidings - Thomas Jefferson no longer lives!
You can tell alot about a fellow's character by his way of eating jellybeans.
The philosophy of the school room in one generation will be the philosophy of government in the next.
Those who dare to fail miserably can achieve greatly.
We need to internalize this idea of excellence. Not many folks spend a lot of time trying to be excellent.
I hope I shall possess firmness and virtue enough to maintain what I consider the most enviable of all titles, the character of an honest man.
Corruption is just another form of tyranny.
No other terms than unconditional and immediate surrender. I propose to move immediately upon your works.
Great is the guilt of an unnecessary war.
We did not choose to be the guardians of the gate, but there is no one else.
Human rights is the soul of our foreign policy, because human rights is the very soul of our sense of nationhood.
There are only three ways to meet the unpaid bills of a nation. The first is taxation. The second is repudiation. The third is inflation.
If you are not too large for the place you occupy, you are too small for it.
The world must be made safe for democracy. Its peace must be planted upon the tested foundations of political liberty.
If you think the President was right to open the doors of American opportunity to young immigrants brought here as children who want to go to college or serve in the military, you should vote for Barack Obama.
Don't worry over what the newspapers say. I don't. Why should anyone else? I told the truth to the newspaper correspondents - but when you tell the truth to them they are at sea.
In reference to the Army and Navy, lately employed with so much distinction on active service, care shall be taken to insure the highest condition of efficiency; and in furtherance of that object, the Military and Naval Schools, sustained by the liberality of Congress, shall receive the special attention of the Executive.
If laws acting upon private interests can not always be avoided, they should be confined within the narrowest limits, and left wherever possible to the legislatures of the States.
Our wise men flattered us into the adoption of the banking system under the idea that boundless wealth would result from the adoption.
Democracy is worth dying for, because it's the most deeply honorable form of government ever devised by man.
The most important single ingredient in the formula of success is knowing how to get along with people.
I mean, I do think at a certain point you've made enough money.
An intellectual is a man who takes more words than necessary to tell more than he knows.
When you have an efficient government, you have a dictatorship.
Patriotism is easy to understand in America. It means looking out for yourself by looking out for your country.
Abuse of words has been the great instrument of sophistry and chicanery, of party, faction, and division of society.
We cannot learn from one another until we stop shouting at one another - until we speak quietly enough so that our words can be heard as well as our voices.
The means of defense against foreign danger historically have become the instruments of tyranny at home.
It's clearly a budget. It's got a lot of numbers in it.
Democracy shows not only its power in reforming governments, but in regenerating a race of men and this is the greatest blessing of free governments.
Territory is but the body of a nation. The people who inhabit its hills and valleys are its soul, its spirit, its life.
Let every man, every corporation, and especially let every village, town, and city, every county and State, get out of debt and keep out of debt. It is the debtor that is ruined by hard times.
We can have no '50-50' allegiance in this country. Either a man is an American and nothing else, or he is not an American at all.
A nation that destroys its soils destroys itself. Forests are the lungs of our land, purifying the air and giving fresh strength to our people.
The care of human life and happiness, and not their destruction, is the first and only object of good government.
If a problem cannot be solved, enlarge it.
The Marine Corps is the Navy's police force and as long as I am President that is what it will remain. They have a propaganda machine that is almost equal to Stalin's.
To live under the American Constitution is the greatest political privilege that was ever accorded to the human race.
People have got to know whether or not their president is a crook. Well, I'm not a crook. I earned everything I've got.
All men having power ought to be distrusted to a certain degree.
I just want you to know that, when we talk about war, we're really talking about peace.
I have always been afraid of banks.
I would hope that understanding and reconciliation are not limited to the 19th hole alone.
The day will come - and it is not far off - when the legacy of Lincoln will finally be fulfilled at 1600 Pennsylvania Avenue, when a black man or woman will sit in the Oval Office. When that day comes, the most remarkable thing about it will be how naturally it occurs.
I have no predilection for unpopularity as such, but I hold it much preferable to the popularity of a day, which perishes with the transient topic upon which it is grounded.
The United States is not a nation to which peace is a necessity.
No person can be more deeply sensible than myself of the danger of entangling alliances with any foreign nation. That we should avoid such alliances has become a maxim of our policy consecrated by the most venerated names which adorn our history and sanctioned by the unanimous voice of the American people.
The public lands are a public stock, which ought to be disposed of to the best advantage for the nation.
The progress of society is mainly the improvement in the condition of the workingmen of the world.
It has been my experience that folks who have no vices have very few virtues.
Our most basic common link is that we all inhabit this planet. We all breathe the same air. We all cherish our children's future. And we are all mortal.
To reach a port, we must sail - sail, not tie at anchor - sail, not drift.
Educate and inform the whole mass of the people... They are the only sure reliance for the preservation of our liberty.
The foolish and wicked practice of profane cursing and swearing is a vice so mean and low that every person of sense and character detests and despises it.
Reality has a way of intruding. Reality eventually intrudes on everything.
I have nothing to do with opinions. I deal only with armed rebellion and its aiders and abettors.
While you're saving your face, you're losing your ass.
America did not invent human rights. In a very real sense human rights invented America.
I am proud to have been born in Iowa. Through the eyes of a ten-year-old boy, it was a place of adventure and daily discoveries - the wonder of the growing crops, the excitements of the harvest, the journeys to the woods for nuts and hunting, the joys of snowy winters, the comfort of the family fireside, of good food and tender care.
The pat on the back, the arm around the shoulder, the praise for what was done right and the sympathetic nod for what wasn't are as much a part of golf as life itself.
Old guys can still do fun things.
The great object of the institution of civil government is the improvement of those who are parties to the social compact.
Part of our essential humanity is paying respect to what God gave us and what will be here a long time after we're gone.
We live in a stage of politics, where legislators seem to regard the passage of laws as much more important than the results of their enforcement.
The Senate are a branch of the treaty-making power, and by consulting them in advance of his own action upon important measures of foreign policy which may ultimately come before them for their consideration, the President secures harmony of action between that body and himself.
It is by these, the people, that I have been clothed with the high powers which they have seen fit to confide to their Chief Executive, and been charged with the solemn responsibility under which those powers are to be exercised.
 It's true hard work never killed anybody, but I figure, why take the chance? - Ronald Reagan
It's true hard work never killed anybody, but I figure, why take the chance?
It is only through labor and painful effort, by grim energy and resolute courage, that we move on to better things.
The goal of education is the advancement of knowledge and the dissemination of truth.
I think when you spread the wealth around it's good for everybody.
Pull the string, and it will follow wherever you wish. Push it, and it will go nowhere at all.
I never gave anybody hell! I just told the truth and they thought it was hell.
Let us have peace.
The presidency has many problems, but boredom is the least of them.
And I have no doubt that every new example will succeed, as every past one has done, in showing that religion and Government will both exist in greater purity, the less they are mixed together.
I believe that God has planted in every heart the desire to live in freedom.
I'm the only person of distinction who has ever had a depression named for him.
For millions of men and women, the church has been the hospital for the soul, the school for the mind and the safe depository for moral ideas.
Poland should be strong and prosperous and independent and play its proper role as a great nation in the heart of Europe.
The more you meditate on the laws of Moses, the more striking and brighter does their wisdom appear.
Public officers are the servants and agents of the people, to execute the laws which the people have made.
Well may the boldest fear and the wisest tremble when incurring responsibilities on which may depend our country's peace and prosperity, and in some degree the hopes and happiness of the whole human family.
By these purchases the Indian title, with moderate reservations, has been extinguished to the whole of the land within the limits of the State of Ohio, and to a part of that in the Michigan Territory and of the State of Indiana.
Universal suffrage is sound in principle. The radical element is right.
I will prepare and some day my chance will come.
The time to repair the roof is when the sun is shining.
True individual freedom cannot exist without economic security and independence. People who are hungry and out of a job are the stuff of which dictatorships are made.
Were it left to me to decide whether we should have a government without newspapers, or newspapers without a government, I should not hesitate a moment to prefer the latter.
My observation is that whenever one person is found adequate to the discharge of a duty... it is worse executed by two persons, and scarcely done at all if three or more are employed therein.
Let me tell you what I literally told every world leader I've met with, and I've met them all: It's never, never, never been a good bet to bet against America. We have the finest fighting force in the world.
Nations, like individuals, are punished for their transgressions.
I would rather belong to a poor nation that was free than to a rich nation that had ceased to be in love with liberty.
After an existence of nearly 20 years of almost innocuous desuetude, these laws are brought forth.
I know enough of the family life of officers. I scarcely know my own children or they me.
Banks properly established and conducted are highly useful to the business of the country, and will doubtless continue to exist in the States so long as they conform to their laws and are found to be safe and beneficial.
The great increase of our population throughout the Union will alone produce an important effect, and in no quarter will it be so sensibly felt as in those in contemplation.
It is the desire of the good people of the whole country that sectionalism as a factor in our politics should disappear.
This country, with its institutions, belongs to the people who inhabit it. Whenever they shall grow weary of the existing government, they can exercise their constitutional right of amending it, or exercise their revolutionary right to overthrow it.
Be sincere; be brief; be seated.
I never considered a difference of opinion in politics, in religion, in philosophy, as cause for withdrawing from a friend.
Labor to keep alive in your breast that little spark of celestial fire, called conscience.
In the good old days when I was a senator, I was my own man.
I have noticed that nothing I never said ever did me any harm.
In politics the middle way is none at all.
This is a moment that I deeply wish my parents could have lived to share. My father would have enjoyed what you have so generously said of me-and my mother would have believed it.
When I was in the White House, I was confronted with the challenge of the Cold War. Both the Soviet Union and I had 30,000 nuclear weapons that could destroy the entire earth and I had to maintain the peace.
The brave man inattentive to his duty, is worth little more to his country than the coward who deserts in the hour of danger.
I love to deal with doctrines and events. The contests of men about men I greatly dislike.
In the Lord's Prayer, the first petition is for daily bread. No one can worship God or love his neighbor on an empty stomach.
You know, everybody makes mistakes when they are president.
I'll be damned if I am not getting tired of this. It seems to be the profession of a President simply to hear other people talk.
The confidence and respect shown by my countrymen in calling me to be the Chief Magistrate of a Republic holding a high rank among the nations of the earth have inspired me with feelings of the most profound gratitude.
Every proper exertion has been made and will be continued to carry out the wishes of Congress in relation to the tobacco trade, as indicated in the several resolutions of the House of Representatives and the legislation of the two branches.
Nature governs man by no principle more fixed than that which leads him to pursue his interest.
Some people wonder all their lives if they've made a difference. The Marines don't have that problem.
People ask the difference between a leader and a boss. The leader leads, and the boss drives.
We can't drive our SUVs and eat as much as we want and keep our homes on 72 degrees at all times... and then just expect that other countries are going to say OK. That's not leadership. That's not going to happen.
Every gun that is made, every warship launched, every rocket fired, signifies in the final sense a theft from those who hunger and are not fed, those who are cold and are not clothed.
Carry the battle to them. Don't let them bring it to you. Put them on the defensive and don't ever apologize for anything.
The slogan 'press on' has solved and always will solve the problems of the human race.
All the perplexities, confusion and distress in America arise, not from defects in their Constitution or Confederation, not from want of honor or virtue, so much as from the downright ignorance of the nature of coin, credit and circulation.
When the burdens of the presidency seem unusually heavy, I always remind myself it could be worse. I could be a mayor.
What is government itself but the greatest of all reflections on human nature?
Our nation must come together to unite.
Nullification means insurrection and war; and the other states have a right to put it down.
It's a very good question, very direct, and I'm not going to answer it.
The Declaration of Independence pronounced the irrevocable decree of political separation, between the United States and their people on the one part, and the British king, government, and nation on the other.
Some day I will be better remembered.
A government is for the benefit of all the people.
Although... the Chief Magistrate must almost of necessity be chosen by a party and stand pledged to its principles and measures, yet in his official action he should not be the President of a party only, but of the whole people of the United States.
I have great satisfaction in stating that our relations with France, Russia, and other powers continue on the most friendly basis.
In avoiding the appearance of evil, I am not sure but I have sometimes unnecessarily deprived myself and others of innocent enjoyments.
I am a part of everything that I have read.
I'm not the smartest fellow in the world, but I can sure pick smart colleagues.
Whenever you do a thing, act as if all the world were watching.
Let us with caution indulge the supposition that morality can be maintained without religion. Reason and experience both forbid us to expect that national morality can prevail in exclusion of religious principle.
The only things worth learning are the things you learn after you know it all.
Those who trust to chance must abide by the results of chance.
When people talk of the freedom of writing, speaking or thinking I cannot choose but laugh. No such thing ever existed. No such thing now exists; but I hope it will exist. But it must be hundreds of years after you and I shall write and speak no more.
Doing what's right isn't the problem. It is knowing what's right.
We should live our lives as though Christ were coming this afternoon.
Unless you become more watchful in your states and check the spirit of monopoly and thirst for exclusive privileges you will in the end find that... the control over your dearest interests has passed into the hands of these corporations.
The chief duty of government is to keep the peace and stand out of the sunshine of the people.
The method of political science is the interpretation of life; its instrument is insight, a nice understanding of subtle, unformulated conditions.
If Saddam rejects peace and we have to use force, our purpose is clear. We want to seriously diminish the threat posed by Iraq's weapons of mass destruction program.
If this humor be the safety of our race, then it is due largely to the infusion into the American people of the Irish brain.
My wife was as much of a soldier as I was.
On receiving from the people the sacred trust twice confided on my illustrious predecessor, and which he has discharged so faithfully and so well, I know that I can not expect to perform the arduous task with equal ability and success.
I am charged with violating pledges which I never gave; and because I execute what I believe to be the law, with usurping powers not conferred by law; and above all, with using the powers conferred upon the President by the Constitution, from corrupt motives and for unwarrantable ends.
I've often said there's nothing better for the inside of a man than the outside of a horse.
Order without liberty and liberty without order are equally destructive.
The greatest honor history can bestow is that of peacemaker.
In this outward and physical ceremony we attest once again to the inner and spiritual strength of our Nation. As my high school teacher, Miss Julia Coleman, used to say: 'We must adjust to changing times and still hold to unchanging principles.'
A good many things go around in the dark besides Santa Claus.
I had pro offers from the Detroit Lions and Green Bay Packers, who were pretty hard up for linemen in those days. If I had gone into professional football the name Jerry Ford might have been a household word today.
A law is not a law without coercion behind it.
A conservative is someone who makes no changes and consults his grandmother when in doubt.
Well, first of all, I think that a lot of the voters who are voting for the tea party candidates have really good impulses. That is, they believe that for years and years and years, the people with wealth and power or government power have done well and ordinary people have not. That's true.
If elected, I would not be the mere president of a party - I would endeavor to act independent of party domination and should feel bound to administer the government untrammeled by party schemes.
My conviction of the necessity of further legislative provisions for the safe-keeping and disbursement of the public moneys and my opinion in regard to the measures best adapted to the accomplishment of those objects have been already submitted to you.
I should be pleased to see all the nations on the earth prosperous and happy and rich, for it would furnish to me the best evidence of the prosperity of my native land.
Within the covers of the Bible are the answers for all the problems men face.
I have always found that mercy bears richer fruits than strict justice.
Leadership and learning are indispensable to each other.
The United States is not, and never will be, at war with Islam.
May we never confuse honest dissent with disloyal subversion.
We didn't crumble after 9/11. We didn't falter after the Boston Marathon. But we're America. Americans will never, ever stand down. We endure. We overcome. We own the finish line.
It was my fortune, or misfortune, to be called to the office of Chief Executive without any previous political training.
If an individual wants to be a leader and isn't controversial, that means he never stood for anything.
A well-instructed people alone can be permanently a free people.
Everywhere that freedom stirs, let tyrants fear.
Prosperity cannot be restored by raids upon the public Treasury.
It's the quality of the ordinary, the straight, the square, that accounts for the great stability and success of our nation. It's a quality to be proud of. But it's a quality that many people seem to have neglected.
We are not the sum of our possessions.
According to the Stoics, all vice was resolvable into folly: according to the Christian principle, it is all the effect of weakness.
Minds do not act together in public; they simply stick together; and when their private activities are resumed, they fly apart again.
Senator Badger did not call. During the whole of the last session of Congress, he did not call on me. He is a bitter partisan and is no doubt sensible that during the presidential canvass of 1844, he did me gross injustice.
To impose taxes when the public exigencies require them is an obligation of the most sacred character, especially with a free people.
The independence of all political and other bother is a happiness.
Those who deny freedom to others deserve it not for themselves; and under the rule of a just God, cannot long retain it.
Conformity is the jailer of freedom and the enemy of growth.
We proved that we are still a people capable of doing big things and tackling our biggest challenges.
A wise and frugal government, which shall restrain men from injuring one another, shall leave them otherwise free to regulate their own pursuits of industry and improvement, and shall not take from the mouth of labor the bread it has earned.
When we assumed the Soldier, we did not lay aside the Citizen.
Unions did in fact build the middle class. And here's what that did. That built the United States of America as we know it.
I always consider the settlement of America with reverence and wonder, as the opening of a grand scene and design in providence, for the illumination of the ignorant and the emancipation of the slavish part of mankind all over the earth.
Poverty must not be a bar to learning and learning must offer an escape from poverty.
I have 22 grandchildren and great-grandchildren, and they keep me young.
America is a Nation with a mission - and that mission comes from our most basic beliefs. We have no desire to dominate, no ambitions of empire. Our aim is a democratic peace - a peace founded upon the dignity and rights of every man and woman.
I feel in the depths of my soul that it is the highest, most sacred, and most irreversible part of my obligation to preserve the union of these states, although it may cost me my life.
The President is the last person in the world to know what the people really want and think.
The only use of an obstacle is to be overcome. All that an obstacle does with brave men is, not to frighten them, but to challenge them.
I know there is a Supreme Being who rules the affairs of men and whose goodness and mercy have always followed the American people, and I know He will not turn from us now if we humbly and reverently seek His powerful aid.
I hope some compromise will be entered into between the two parties, slavery & antislavery, which will have the effect of allaying violent passions on both sides.
Our country presents on every side the evidences of that continued favor under whose auspices it, has gradually risen from a few feeble and dependent colonies to a prosperous and powerful confederacy.
When the happy era shall arrive for the emancipation of nations, hastened on as it will be by the example of America, shall they not resort to the Declaration of our Independence as the charter of their rights, and will not its author be hailed as the benefactor of the redeemed?
We are in a period when old questions are settled and the new are not yet brought forward. Extreme party action, if continued in such a time, would ruin the party. Moderation is its only chance. The party out of power gains by all partisan conduct of those in power.
I am a slow walker, but I never walk back.
It is an unfortunate fact that we can secure peace only by preparing for war.
The thing about hip-hop today is it's smart, it's insightful. The way they can communicate a complex message in a very short space is remarkable.
Pessimism never won any battle.
Life is a matter of really tough choices.
I would suggest the taxation of all property equally, whether church or corporation, exempting only the last resting place of the dead and possibly, with proper restrictions, church edifices.
When the President does it, that means that it's not illegal.
The circulation of confidence is better than the circulation of money.
We will make no distinction between the terrorists who committed these acts and those who harbour them.
Let me remind you that credit is the lifeblood of business, the lifeblood of prices and jobs.
I had a lot of experience with people smarter than I am.
It's no exaggeration to say that the undecideds could go one way or another.
If you're a Muslim and you love America and freedom and you hate terror, stay here and help us win and make a future together. We want you.
Action for which I become responsible, or for which my administration becomes responsible, shall be within the law.
I think we consider too much the good luck of the early bird and not enough the bad luck of the early worm.
When you put on a uniform, there are certain inhibitions that you accept.
Always be sincere, even if you don't mean it.
Four-fifths of all our troubles would disappear, if we would only sit down and keep still.
I appreciate the fact, and am proud of it, that the attentions I am receiving are intended more for our country than for me personally.
Let us move from the era of confrontation to the era of negotiation.
America was indebted to immigration for her settlement and prosperity. That part of America which had encouraged them most had advanced most rapidly in population, agriculture and the arts.
Wisdom consists not so much in knowing what to do in the ultimate as knowing what to do next.
There are no adequate substitutes for father, mother, and children bound together in a loving commitment to nurture and protect. No government, no matter how well-intentioned, can take the place of the family in the scheme of things.
Many schools include a service project as part of their curriculum, and many corporations have in-house projects for their employees or give them time off to do volunteer work.
This idea of the transcendent power of the Supreme Being is essentially connected with that by which the whole duty of man is summed up: obedience to His will.
The 22nd Amendment should probably be modified to say two consecutive terms instead of two terms for a lifetime.
I love judges, and I love courts. They are my ideals, that typify on earth what we shall meet hereafter in heaven under a just God.
The passion for office among members of Congress is very great, if not absolutely disreputable, and greatly embarrasses the operations of the Government. They create offices by their own votes and then seek to fill them themselves.
The payments which have been made into the Treasury show the very productive state of the public revenue.
I have wondered at times what the Ten Commandments would have looked like if Moses had run them through the US Congress.
The government is us; we are the government, you and I.
Rules are not necessarily sacred, principles are.
The glow of one warm thought is to me worth more than money.
It will be found an unjust and unwise jealousy to deprive a man of his natural liberty upon the supposition he may abuse it.
A politician is a man who understands government. A statesman is a politician who's been dead for 15 years.
You can't know too much, but you can say too much.
The furnace of affliction produces refinement, in states as well as individuals.
We must open the doors of opportunity. But we must also equip our people to walk through those doors.
Well, you know, I had been a peanut farmer. I had - you know who was the first president - Democratic president I ever met? Bill Clinton.
I've got big shoes to fill. This is my chance to do something. I have to seize the moment.
The sin of slavery is one of which it may be said that without the shedding of blood there is no remission.
Golf is a game in which one endeavors to control a ball with implements ill adapted for the purpose.
A government for the people must depend for its success on the intelligence, the morality, the justice, and the interest of the people themselves.
As American freemen, we cannot but sympathize in all efforts to extend the blessings of civil and political liberty, but at the same time, we are warned by the admonitions of history and the voice of our own beloved Washington to abstain from entangling alliances with foreign nations.
The case of the Seminoles constitutes at present the only exception to the successful efforts of the Government to remove the Indians to the homes assigned them west of the Mississippi.
By the last returns to the Department of War the militia force of the several States may be estimated at 800,000 men - infantry, artillery, and cavalry.
Unjust attacks on public men do them more good than unmerited praise.
When I do good I feel good, when I do bad I feel bad, and that's my religion.
I pledge you, I pledge myself, to a new deal for the American people.
Sometimes it is said that man cannot be trusted with the government of himself. Can he, then be trusted with the government of others? Or have we found angels in the form of kings to govern him? Let history answer this question.
Few men have virtue to withstand the highest bidder.
The atom bomb was no 'great decision.' It was merely another powerful weapon in the arsenal of righteousness.
Any man who does not like dogs and want them about does not deserve to be in the White House.
Power always thinks it has a great soul and vast views beyond the comprehension of the weak.
Every man has a right to a Saturday night bath.
I believe the most solemn duty of the American president is to protect the American people. If America shows uncertainty and weakness in this decade, the world will drift toward tragedy. This will not happen on my watch.
War is a blessing compared with national degradation.
All free governments are managed by the combined wisdom and folly of the people.
Democracy is not so much a form of government as a set of principles.
When times are tough, constant conflict may be good politics but in the real world, cooperation works better. After all, nobody's right all the time, and a broken clock is right twice a day.
I have come to the conclusion that the major part of the work of a President is to increase the gate receipts of expositions and fairs and bring tourists to town.
The condition of the tribes which occupy the country set apart for them in the West is highly prosperous, and encourages the hope of their early civilization. They have for the most part abandoned the hunter state and turned their attention to agricultural pursuits.
On the coming of that tremendous storm which for eight years desolated our country, Mr. Jefferson hesitated not, halted not.
Government is like a baby. An alimentary canal with a big appetite at one end and no sense of responsibility at the other.
For time and the world do not stand still. Change is the law of life. And those who look only to the past or the present are certain to miss the future.
Take off your bedroom slippers. Put on your marching shoes,' he said, his voice rising as applause and cheers mounted. 'Shake it off. Stop complainin'. Stop grumblin'. Stop cryin'. We are going to press on. We have work to do.
Politics ought to be the part-time profession of every citizen who would protect the rights and privileges of free people and who would preserve what is good and fruitful in our national heritage.
A President cannot always be popular.
Little progress can be made by merely attempting to repress what is evil. Our great hope lies in developing what is good.
My country has contrived for me the most insignificant office that ever the invention of man contrived or his imagination conceived.
John F. Kennedy was the victim of the hate that was a part of our country. It is a disease that occupies the minds of the few but brings danger to the many.
We can't equate democracy with Christianity because the largest democracy on earth is India, which is primarily Hindu. The third largest democracy is Indonesia, which is Islamic. Democracy and freedom are not dependent on Christian beliefs.
In America today, we are nearer a final triumph over poverty than is any other land.
My commitment to the security and future of Israel is based upon basic morality as well as enlightened self-interest. Our role in supporting Israel honors our own heritage.
It is not questioned that the Federal Government is one of limited powers. Its powers are such, and such only, as are expressly granted in the Constitution or are properly incident to the expressly granted powers and necessary to their execution.
Were you a merchant, would you settle yourself in a rich or poor neighborhood? You would not be so blind as to locate yourself among persons who would not be able to purchase your goods. So with nations with whom we trade.
Surround yourself with the best people you can find, delegate authority, and don't interfere as long as the policy you've decided upon is being carried out.
Never throughout history has a man who lived a life of ease left a name worth remembering.
The cost of freedom is always high, but Americans have always paid it. And one path we shall never choose, and that is the path of surrender, or submission.
We need to steer clear of this poverty of ambition, where people want to drive fancy cars and wear nice clothes and live in nice apartments but don't want to work hard to accomplish these things. Everyone should try to realize their full potential.
The clearest way to show what the rule of law means to us in everyday life is to recall what has happened when there is no rule of law.
Look, freedom is an overwhelming American notion. The idea that we want to see the world, the peoples of the world free is something that all of us subscribe to.
Declare Church and State forever separate and distinct, but each free within their proper spheres, and that all church property shall bear its own proportion of taxation.
The press is the enemy.
The diversity in the faculties of men, from which the rights of property originate, is not less an insuperable obstacle to an uniformity of interests. The protection of these faculties is the first object of government.
If you fear making anyone mad, then you ultimately probe for the lowest common denominator of human achievement.
There is no employing class, no working class, no farming class. You may pigeonhole a man or woman as a farmer or a worker or a professional man or an employer or even a banker. But the son of the farmer will be a doctor or a worker or even a banker, and his daughter a teacher. The son of a worker will be an employer - or maybe president.
A coalition of groups is waging a massive propaganda campaign against the president of the United States. an all-out attack. Their aim is total victory for themselves and total defeat for him.
History will point out some of the things I did wrong and some of the things I did right.
I have considered the pension list of the republic a roll of honor.
A crowd of persons came in as soon as my office was opened. Among them were several ladies who called to pay their respects. None who called had any business of more importance than an ardent desire to serve their country, provided they could be appointed to a good office. As I has none of these to dispose of, they were, of course, disappointed.
Our relations with the other powers of Europe have experienced no essential change since the last session.
I am less disposed to think of a West Point education as requisite for this business than I was at first. Good sense and energy are the qualities required.
Always bear in mind that your own resolution to succeed is more important than any other.
Great thoughts speak only to the thoughtful mind, but great actions speak to all mankind.
When you see a rattlesnake poised to strike, you do not wait until he has struck to crush him.
Mankind are more disposed to suffer, while evils are sufferable, than to right themselves by abolishing the forms to which they are accustomed.
My first wish is to see this plague of mankind, war, banished from the earth.
The Chinese have figured out that they have a giant environmental problem. Folks in Beijing, some days, literally can't breathe. Over a million Chinese die prematurely every year because of air pollution.
I don't know anything that builds the will to win better than competitive sports.
Where an excess of power prevails, property of no sort is duly respected. No man is safe in his opinions, his person, his faculties, or his possessions.
The resolve of our great nation is being tested. But make no mistake, we will show the world that we will pass the test.
Elevate those guns a little lower.
Right reason is stronger than force.
A little group of willful men, representing no opinion but their own, have rendered the great government of the United States helpless and contemptible.
In the new economy, information, education, and motivation are everything.
The connection which formerly existed between the Government and banks was in reality injurious to both, as well as to the general interests of the community at large.
Government exists to protect us from each other. Where government has gone beyond its limits is in deciding to protect us from ourselves.
Efforts and courage are not enough without purpose and direction.
I'm the president of the United States. I'm not the emperor of the United States.
I despise people who go to the gutter on either the right or the left and hurl rocks at those in the center.
The basis of our political system is the right of the people to make and to alter their constitutions of government.
My dad used to have an expression - 'It is the lucky person who gets up in the morning, puts both feet on the floor, knows what they are about to do, and thinks it still matters.'
The essence of a free government consists in an effectual control of rivalries.
A President's hardest task is not to do what is right, but to know what is right.
America must not ignore the threat gathering against us. Facing clear evidence of peril, we cannot wait for the final proof, the smoking gun that could come in the form of a mushroom cloud.
If the Union is once severed, the line of separation will grow wider and wider, and the controversies which are now debated and settled in the halls of legislation will then be tried in fields of battle and determined by the sword.
Ideas are the great warriors of the world, and a war that has no idea behind it, is simply a brutality.
You cannot, in human experience, rush into the light. You have to go through the twilight into the broadening day before the noon comes and the full sun is upon the landscape.
When I took office, only high energy physicists had ever heard of what is called the Worldwide Web... Now even my cat has its own page.
The law increasing and organizing the military establishment of the United States has been nearly carried into effect, and the Army has been extensively and usefully employed during the past season.
There are no easy answers, but there are simple answers. We must have the courage to do what we know is morally right.
The first requisite of a good citizen in this republic of ours is that he shall be able and willing to pull his own weight.
Competition has been shown to be useful up to a certain point and no further, but cooperation, which is the thing we must strive for today, begins where competition leaves off.
Any man who wants to be president is either an egomaniac or crazy.
It is understanding that gives us an ability to have peace. When we understand the other fellow's viewpoint, and he understands ours, then we can sit down and work out our differences.
The business of America is business.
Solutions are not the answer.
Let me recommend the best medicine in the world: a long journey, at a mild season, through a pleasant country, in easy stages.
It's not necessary to fear the prospect of failure but to be determined not to fail.
When we are sick, we want an uncommon doctor; when we have a construction job to do, we want an uncommon engineer, and when we are at war, we want an uncommon general. It is only when we get into politics that we are satisfied with the common man.
I cannot imagine any other country in the world where the opposition would seek, and the chief executive would allow, the dissemination of his most private and personal conversations with his staff, which, to be honest, do not exactly confer sainthood on anyone concerned.
It's much worse to read criticism about your son than yourself.
Today, many companies are reporting that their number one constraint on growth is the inability to hire workers with the necessary skills.
Our God is a forgiving God.
I think I might as well give up being a candidate. There are so many people in the country who don't like me.
The unrestricted competition so commonly advocated does not leave us the survival of the fittest. The unscrupulous succeed best in accumulating wealth.
Don't worry when you are not recognized, but strive to be worthy of recognition.
The things that will destroy America are prosperity-at-any-price, peace-at-any-price, safety-first instead of duty-first, the love of soft living, and the get-rich-quick theory of life.
Confidence... thrives on honesty, on honor, on the sacredness of obligations, on faithful protection and on unselfish performance. Without them it cannot live.
He who knows best knows how little he knows.
My father was not a failure. After all, he was the father of a president of the United States.
Christmas is not a time nor a season, but a state of mind. To cherish peace and goodwill, to be plenteous in mercy, is to have the real spirit of Christmas.
No event in American history is more misunderstood than the Vietnam War. It was misreported then, and it is misremembered now.
A man has a property in his opinions and the free communication of them.
It is good to realize that if love and peace can prevail on earth, and if we can teach our children to honor nature's gifts, the joys and beauties of the outdoors will be here forever.
The worst evil of disregard for some law is that it destroys respect for all law.
In all my public and private acts as your president, I expect to follow my instincts of openness and candor with full confidence that honesty is always the best policy in the end.
As his vice president for eight years, I learned more from Ronald Reagan than from anyone I encountered in all my years of public life.
I am president now, and tired of being kicked around.
Do not let your bachelor ways crystallize so that you can't soften them when you come to have a wife and a family of your own.
Labor is prior to, and independent of, capital. Capital is only the fruit of labor, and could never have existed if labor had not first existed. Labor is the superior of capital, and deserves much the higher consideration.
A nation that is afraid to let its people judge the truth and falsehood in an open market is a nation that is afraid of its people.
Issues are never simple. One thing I'm proud of is that very rarely will you hear me simplify the issues.
A Bill of Rights is what the people are entitled to against every government, and what no just government should refuse, or rest on inference.
We should not look back unless it is to derive useful lessons from past errors, and for the purpose of profiting by dearly bought experience.
We are America, second to none, and we own the finish line. Don't forget it.
I must not write a word to you about politics, because you are a woman.
We have talked long enough in this country about equal rights. It is time now to write the next chapter - and to write it in the books of law.
The deliberate and deadly attacks which were carried out yesterday against our country were more than acts of terror. They were acts of war.
It was settled by the Constitution, the laws, and the whole practice of the government that the entire executive power is vested in the President of the United States.
Justice and goodwill will outlast passion.
At every crisis in one's life, it is absolute salvation to have some sympathetic friend to whom you can think aloud without restraint or misgiving.
A system in which we may have an enforced rest from legislation for two years is not bad.
I am not liked as a President by the politicians in office, in the press, or in Congress. But I am content to abide the judgment the sober second thought of the people.
Republicans believe every day is the Fourth of July, but the democrats believe every day is April 15.
The best executive is one who has sense enough to pick good people to do what he wants done, and self-restraint enough to keep from meddling with them while they do it.
If you treat people right they will treat you right... ninety percent of the time.
There is no glory in battle worth the blood it costs.
Those who want the Government to regulate matters of the mind and spirit are like men who are so afraid of being murdered that they commit suicide to avoid assassination.
When more and more people are thrown out of work, unemployment results.
I, poor creature, worn out with scribbling for my bread and my liberty, low in spirits and weak in health, must leave others to wear the laurels which I have sown, others to eat the bread which I have earned. A common case.
I once told Nixon that the Presidency is like being a jackass caught in a hail storm. You've got to just stand there and take it.
We will not learn how to live together in peace by killing each other's children.
The United States have fulfilled in good faith all their treaty stipulations with the Indian tribes, and have in every other instance insisted upon a like performance of their obligations.
As I would not be a slave, so I would not be a master. This expresses my idea of democracy.
Mankind must put an end to war before war puts an end to mankind.
I've got two daughters. 9 years old and 6 years old. I am going to teach them first of all about values and morals. But if they make a mistake, I don't want them punished with a baby.
Never spend your money before you have earned it.
Happiness and moral duty are inseparably connected.
One of the things I've never been accused of is not caring about people.
I can see clearly now... that I was wrong in not acting more decisively and more forthrightly in dealing with Watergate.
To suppose that any form of government will secure liberty or happiness without any virtue in the people, is a chimerical idea.